neural radiance fields

computational photography

adaptive optics

[bit.ly/cs294-164-fa23](http://bit.ly/cs294-164-fa23)

[https://edstem.org/us/join/ew4FxM](https://edstem.org/us/join/ew4FxM)

[review cs184 lectures](https://cs184.eecs.berkeley.edu/sp23) on color science 1 and 22

4 classes before project mini hackathon

then 3 more

our team does background reading for our area and we explain what we learned

ido? ideo?

lytro

comp photo

start with a question that sounds basic. .

catching the light field is a higerh diensional encoding of the light. can focus aftre taking the picture

visual computing. lot of hunan vision. ‘acm doctoral illustration award. for work done on neural radiance fields.

coretsumo + oz vision

ren ung - hokkyeun

school of optometry and vision science + cal

perception differs largely from retina signals:

saccades - eyes dart large amts in physical space (2-3 times per second)

in the center of the focea, signals coming out of the photorecptors are

1. foveation - density of cells in fovea . the center of vision is zoomed in.
2. spectral sampling - retina does not sense in RGB, but activation in each of the three cone cells.
3. optic nerve signals - lateral inhiition and spiking. puts it into **gradient space. center surround circuits. spoling because retinal ganglion cells whose axons are optic nerve fibers. (cones dont spike, tgc do)**

how to we go from discrete and uneven jerky retinal signals to spatially continuous undistorted visiual perception.

what is it like for someone color blind vs a tretrachromat?

progream what the activation level is at each cell

microdoses of lasers in the ere. see activation and try to reprogram space of stimuli

integral projection equation

graphics at the level of indiviual phorocreactprs’’

show lazer microdoses in a specific way, see image

spectral respsonse function - no way to only stimulaet cone cell’’

only find and put light into the M cone cells.

human gamut vs oz gamut (qhole tgriagnlew)

rato betewen activaationb enegt and three volor types

color matching experiment

cant match it, so do **negative color matching**

finite gamut to map any point in color space

color mixing control panel

show them 543 nm lazer

if we show them other colors in oz, it spreads out over a wholedistribution

novel colors = blue green but REALLLY saturated

deliberately put the laight in teh wrong directin, will go into a random cone cell. probing colorperception at the level of individual photoreceptors.

adaptive. optics retinal microstimulary. scanning laser ophthalmoscope.

adaptive opics - wavefront sensor to detect aberrations then defromable mirror to undo closed loop aberrations. used to see starts, see telescopes from teh atmosphere.

microdosing l and m on the retina. fast fourier for a person

scanning beam laser.

can choose different lazers. ours is 543 nm laser. diadvtange does nto stimulate s at all.

adaptive optics ocd - hoe to tell which cones are middle and long wavelength

whats the neural plasticity underlying this?

for formation as core vision,

dimensionality of color -

someone w 3d color vision go to 4d —? using gene therapy. in adult squirrel monkeys.

where does visual percept coming frmo and how dow=es it work?

adaptive optics take outthe speherical observationbso f your eye. ‘

hard to study rod bc theyre only present in very low light conditions. plus we are dovusing on color experiments.

signal to roise ratio when ur looking into a blood vessel is really low which is why that pztch ight be dark

AO-OCT spectral classification of cone cells. computational imaging problem of

computational imaging inverse problems.

go into LGN in the brain. recordings show private lign communication (paracellular visual stream)

probe and model visual verception: vmechanistic model for emergsion fo color vision

hummingbirds have 4 color vision

aquirrel monkey has dimensionality boosting

took adults. induction w 3rd gene type via viral infection.

mantis shrimp have 12 photoreceptor types.

oz vision

optic nerve signal of action potentials —> optic nerve stream

where/how does this turn into a color percept

predict optic nerve stream

get real optic nerve stream and compare it to the signal on every optic nerve fiver

brain uses this to ern learnable functions. brain gets this error and does it to figure out learnning.

optic nerve signal decodes signal into percepts, translates it into optical dlow, and does cortical translatino of percept to reincode in optic nerve signal space.

ilearnable funtionable are invertible.

gets percept, translates

atsu

this sysetm is mature now and al lot fo projects can be built on top of it

reprogramming visual perception and boosting color fdimenionality

software mode on oz vision platform

a stroke stole her ability to speak at 200. ai is helpfing restore it year later.

an immense world - ed yong the atlantic

LMS + mutant IR

jessica lee computTIONAL COLOR GEOMETRY

object color space

fm100 test

project webpage

computational neuroscience modelling

lecture on this next week

self supervised model

classic cs scaling: work w atsu

hes puting out a sandbox model (simulated learning procedure)

optic nerve stream encoding - gradient domain, lateral inhibtion

instead of 0.07 cone cells, do 6 million cones and axons

pooling of info from 6 mil info to 1 mil wires

increase realism of eye sims

isetbio

cortical decoding

comp neuro

slow response, photopigment can get depleted

friend angueyra.

optic nerve stream has motion blur - how can u decode color even w the blur

minimal model of color vision emergence

existence proof that we only need signals from optic nerve stream to get image and color. now, what is the minimal model !!

effect of enchroma glasses on color perception

incomplete color blindness

controversy in vision science community

paper by jenny boston

most artsy w most hard tech stuff - color experience is right there

**can model the effect of these glasses - whats happening when wo glasses u have 2d experience and with you do**

oz vision

involved human experiments. once or twice a week.

simulate and optimize urrent coretsumo experiments

RGB + UV. visual example of a NEW CHANNEL of information

UV multiplexed as a background with red

4 cone types on train on it for a long time, system becomes tetrachromatic

extend oz vision to free gaze

normalized cross coloration

stitch together tiny images of the retina into a cohesive map (comp imaging)

a search for human tetrachrom

how many tetrochromats on campus (jessica lee?)

whats the estimate, given by literature

compute specs for novel tests of tetrachromacy

promote existing tests to a tetrochromatic version. what are the reflectance spectra of materials (answer key to the test)

nix surface spectral radiometer

hack an inkjet printer for polychroatic printer

cyan, magenta, yellow, black niks

some have 12 inks. not 12d color, but more accurate repr on the boundary of the gamut.

spectral printing reproduction

light having diff spectral power distribution and interacts with the reflectance of art. spectral reproduction of an image.

prokector system for polychromatic color display

spectral reproduction

6 primary superposition color space

full spectral reproduction

white light, diffusion grater. spatial light modulator, turn on/off bands that correspond to bands u want. prism system that reconverges those.

build multispectral cameras/datasets

small finit number of color channels ≥ 3

askey, dpreview, 2004.

can make datasets w this.

sony f828 w 4 diff color pixel filters.

rgb + IR, rgb + UV.

deep ultraviolet imaging using the rasperry pi ho camera (stereopi)

multi/hyperspectral datasets are generall very small (like 10s of pictures).

specrtal imaging

misc

geometry?