what does a tetrachromat see?
material illuminant? 
reflectance colorspace: 
chromaticity - discard the luminance. keep all the hues and their diff saturations
full colors - most saturated color for every hue

if yellow has neighbors green and red in 2d, the tetrachromat will have a whole disc of colors around yellow

1 tetrachromat found: recruited mothers of anomalous trichromats
take moms and do rayleigh matching test. mixed yellow vs pure monochromatic light. 

take an image of the retina of the tetrachromatic. 
theyre using an anolomoscope (standard colorblindness test), repurposed for this. 

compute stimuli thats statistically equivalent to a tetrachromat. 
2 tests: rayleigh match and 150 hue. 
**assumption that tetrachromacy adds hue dimension, and not something like scintillation or lustre.**
	can we conduct a test to ask if it is scintillation or lustre thats the dimension being added?

we dont percieve polarization (anthropromorphic), but other animals might. 
	diff imaging modalities: polarities. what is the color of polarimetry? (it would have a diff color geometry)

material reflectances are subtractive color (aka multiplicative)
display technologies superimpose the light to make additive colors. 
electroptical light theory/polarization? (synthetic aperture radar?)


object colors? ecological optics?
coblis colorblind simulator!!!
	alkaloid solanine in green tomatoes?!!?!??!
colo;r appears out of eveolutionary interplay. 


object color solid = gamut of all object colors
all possible materials you can see
	multiply reflectance of material with illuminant

chromaticity - colors that are the same refardless of the luminosity
equal stimulation levels lies in a vector direction. 

optimal object color-  most luminous color per chromaticity - color on the boundary of the solid

2 transition color - 2 transitions happen
transition is a wavelength where the reflectance foes from 0 to 1 or 1 to 0 



simulator for displays. play around with 
paint vs light - how do we make color?

optimal objects color theorem


convex hypervolume?

(doing the proof for this using marin)

spectral partitions and semichromes


surface of object color solid reflectances are all super unique. only one way to get this.
	schrodinger quantum wave theory

ostwalds axis ~ object color solid. 
what a colorblind person sees is the slice of the full sphere where you have the dichromatic maximal basis


compute full colors for a tetrachromat

printing = reproduce the spectral responses of the observer

confusion colors- all points along this line are confused to be the same color

color, opponent color (1-reflectance). multiply by cone stimulations, and get a rgb stimulation vector

what are the key colors brought over from FM150 to FM 15?
fabricating a test (exact spectral reproduction). 
	build a display for transition spectra

2 projectors to interlace 3 + 3 primary colors. can use that to make metamers for tetrachromats



### monochromator
spectral power distribution
can measure the power of one of the wavelengths if we put a detector on the other side
refractive dispersion

wide range of spectral power distributions that all look the same to us (as white)

### rgb vs spectral imaging, printing and display
printing asks for multiplicative color basis (CMY K printer ink)

multispectral: has 4, 5 channels instead of 3
	4 channel color fabrication for tetrachromacy. what wavelengths are of interest to you?
hyperspectral:finely measure all wavelength energies separately
	record 1D functions of wavelength at every pixel


## metamerism
aka univariance
model of a light detector we use (pixel in camera, cone cell in eye)
rain of photons in dectector, outputs sum of all detections as a signal. HAVE NO IDEA HOW THEYRE PORCESSED. 

all we get are integrated sums

from electrical signal, can we tell the s, m, l values ? 
metamerism is a function of dimensionality. might not be a trichromatic thing.

they are very diff for diff dimensions!


typoical hyperspectral imaging approaches
hyperspectral volume, datacube
x, y spatial dimension. lambda, wavelength. 
	volumetric imaging output
pointscan system. move slide on microscope to measure SPD of every pixel. 

line scan system - uses slit aperture. spreads line in parallel into a image. 
color filter wheels: taking a diff plane on the volume. 
prism array: diff ways to multiplex. 

digital dodging and blurring of all these layers to heighten the contrast. 



why do a filter wheel and not just more bands on ur color wheel. 
	MOSAICING is the other major approach - price to pay is in resolution. 
imaging optics - curved mirror with grater on it
optical engineering w dispersive elements! edmund optics. 


hyperspectral still in minority compared to most things we would see. 
vv hard to process these things: hard to process for human consumption (I=easy for CV)
food inspection most successful 


helping u measure methane, ghg emissions. cant see w rgb, but can w hyperspectral. nasa tempo mission. !!! i need to talk to this guy who tf is he!!!

resonon will send u a hyperspectral imager. 

**- hyperspectral imaging.**
pushbroom imaging optics?

worldview 3 - satellites. 
see all the bands in the multispectral setup. 
	CAVIS BANDS

AVIRIS NG
	fine grain sampling of wavelength
fabry perot interferometer styles

2 mirrors sperated by something translucent. light will pass thru at the resonant frequency. 

fab can be spin coated on top of the substrate. at very specific thicknesses and layer it on in a masking process. top it off with another NIR layer. 

fabry perot interferometer styles would be very sensitive to angle. 


light field camera design, in its lens has 16 subapertures w diff films. 
lutzhold microscopy and polarizing imaging


diff lightfield camera
	very hard to get the specs in the space bc its so competitive
diffuser based hyperspectral camera
	READ BOTH PAPERS ON THIS
4 color filters - RGBE (tetrachromatic dataset consrtuction). is it the right one to capture the data to produce 
**what would the optimal camera filtes be to collect a dataset for tetrachromats.**

50 image hyperspectral dataset. 
methane, tetrachromacy for humans, for hummingbords. can we capture a dataset of images looking at it the way a hummingbird would?

150 bands of light simultaneously for 
	harvard building multiplex immunofluorescence
	medical pathology
pictures of wildflowers w rgb _ uv

## what goes on in RGB + UV imaging?
sensor spectral response
	has RGB color pixels
	optical component on it called an IR window
		CAN REMOVE THIS CUT FILTER
		OR CAN CHEMICALLY REMOVE THE RGB COLOR POIXELS ARRAYS (monochrome conversion) --> ton more light coming through in UV and IR bands
spectral filters
	uv/ir cut filter spectra. color filters u add and lenses u add are very important. 
	fair sensor is optimized only for 300-700. 

tunable filters - liquid crystal display. 
macro filter or at mosaiced pixel level. 

spectral image production

spectral radiometer records reflectance
james wong 2 pass thing
	multiplicative cmyk color basis

opte-e-ma OLA490 Agile light source
	sprogreammable spectral light source
scanning electron micrograph (larry hornbeck). each mirror on a little hinge. 

take a datacube of x, y, lambda and make the display come out with a hyperspectral image

DMD's - each mirror is really high requency at 11, 574 hertz. use a whole image array to make a projector. 
11574 hertx projector????/
time multiplexed. 





