oz vision display system
prgram the activity at every ohotoreceptor at every point in time
inage the retina at a cellular level (WHICH DEVICE IS DOING THIS)
do cell by cell activation to recreate an image
**can we probe colors beyond the human gamut???!!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!**
	WHATS THE PAPER ASSOCIATED TO THIS
boost color dimensionality in general

details in color matching


### color in displays
regular color display vs oz vision displays
6 million cone cells per eye
S, M, L aka TRISTIMULUS VALUES is the response of the retina at a 
dot product between spectral responsivity matrix and spd of input light sourse gives output tristim values
only things we can change are the RGB intensitites

camera to display? human visual to display?
if we have the spd, we have the SML, so we can calulatethe RGB we want to solve for 
conventional displays make color through a spectrally based metamerism
monochromatic laser! 
laser microdosing? occuring in dark conditions. can convince urself it works even with ambient light. half silvered mirror: activity of the cell is the sum of two light sources. can project something in going through the mirror, when u see from the other way through the mirror ur looking at the laser. 

oz vision: SPATIALLY BASED METAMERISM. NEED ONLY ONE LIGHT SOURCE, INSTEAD OF 3. 

### imaging, tracking, stimulating retina cells
adaptive optics scanning laser ophthalamoscope
optics table
when u blink, ur gonna miss part of the image made by the scanning laser. 

have to dilate first because of the diffraction limit and u want a tightly focused spot on the aperture. 

making a rastor pattern
1 degree spread
wfs - wavefront sensor. system that measures the wavefront deformation of the bean, deformation of ocular aberrations of the eye.
**ao - deformable mirror to counteract chromatic aberrations**

ao retinal microstimulator
ao corrects aberration of the eye
cone cells are half an arcminute away (2.5 microns). MUST BE ACCURATE TO ONE CONE CELL ACCURATE.

another component w a photodectetro. the am of reflected light is processed by the photodetector and turned into a pixel. 

stabilizationL
	cone stabilized in post processing. eye tracking. 
targetted delivery
	moving the E in concert with the eye motion w eye tracking (low latency, 2-3 milliseconds)
	E is fixed on the

### engineering considerations
fixational eye drift - eye moving so much even when we try to keep it still. WE NEED TO ACTIVELY TARGET TO HIT A CELL OF INTEREST. 

scanning laser takes 1/60th of a second and eye moves a lot during that time --> classic rolling shutter distortion


densitometry - spectral classification of the cone cells
ao-oct - bleeding edge cone classification science

**how can we simulate individual cone cells?**
reductive, get down to the unit level (cone cells)

hard to do white light laser microdoses
	hard to get a source for it, also diffracts a lot through the lens (dispersion, chromatic aberration)
how would you stimulate for a max red or max green?

cells at the fovea are very close to the diffraction limit
	how do we see
	intro to vision, electromagnetic waves, vision science


https://www.edmundoptics.com/knowledge-center/application-notes/imaging/limitations-on-resolution-and-contrast-the-airy-disk/#:~:text=The%20Diffraction%20Limit&text=This%20limit%20is%20the%20point,and%20the%20wavelength%20of%20light.
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5480497/


convex hull of the spectral locus is the reachable color gamut
projected 

HOW U GET THE GAMUT
projective math? XYZ incompatible w seeing full addressable gamut (because u get neg values in the denominator)
can never have negative activation of a cell, 
whole positive octant projects onto a triangle


maxwell's color matching experiments
james clerk maxwell
	blend colors together in an additive color sense and ask people to do color matching
ask everyone to do a color matching experiment and 
color workshop in the UK for an outreach program
quantified the fraction of the color primaries needed to do a matching

negative color matching