### cone spectral response functions
for LMS cells
wavelength x normalized sensitivity

### photopigments
photopigment = opsin (protein) + retinal (chromophore)
3 genes, 3 opsins, opsins bind to chromophore which absorbs light that causes biochemical sequence of events that leads to signal to the brain. 
	opsin binding changes its local electrical environment that changes chromophore ability to absorb light. changes the response function. 
absorb photon, go from cis to trans
L&M sex linked, S is not. related to populations of colorblind people. 


## ColorVisionDeficiencies

anomalous trichromacy
	red green colorblindness
		most common form
	**3 genes, 3 opsins, but mutation causes 2 to be very similar**
			protanomoly (protanope) = M', M, S instead of LMS
			deutaranomaly (deuteranope) = L, L', S
dichromacy
	opia - loss
	missing an opsin
monochromacy
	lost 2/3 opsins
	absense of s is very rare but probably the least impactful

### spectral sensitivities in normal population
spectrum of L and M opsins (a class of opsins --> a class of spectral sensitivities)
how separated do L and M have to be to measure their spectral sensitivities - postreceptral compensation ?

### deficiency tests
ishihara color tests. jessica lee
have confusion colors between bakground, so colorblind person wont be able to see the difference.

Fm-100 hue test - 100 samples o f hue circle. 
anomaloscope shows you 3 monochromataic colors (green yellow, red)
	can superimpose the light from these two monochromats (green and yello) to make yellow
	tristimulus response is exactly the same for red and green vs yellow monochromat. totally different spectrally (if you measure their power) but not if u look at our LMS responses. 

### color perception w CV deficiency
giomorri nights 
person w unilateral dichromachy (trichrom in one eye, dichrom in another). 
	get the same depth perception. 
	how can this happen?
	this person, when looking through both eyes, cant see color the way we do. 
	person either saw yellow, blue, or no color (can be explained by color geometry studies)

unilateral tritanopia - missing s 

### potential treatments for CVD
when you make figures, avoid using red and green as differentiating colors. 

### spectral transmittance of enchroma glasses
sepctral transmission funciton of the glasses
block peaks that are super close together, and allow the signal away from the center of the distribution to be brought up (greater differentiator)

take light that wouldve been processed by blank cone and move the light a little bit so it gets processed away from the peak. 

### gene therapy approach to curing color blindness
males are all protonopic (only M + S cones)
virus that has genetic payload for third opsin photopigment
injected into the eye under the retina
low enough concentration that only some of the cells are infected by the virus and the third photopigment gene is included in the DNA. 

cambridge color test for animals (ishihara for humans)
takes 20 weeks to get uptaken (shown through GFP)

reproduce the effect of color vision boosting w oz vision


# active research projects
## coretsumo 
asking neural plasticity to boost cilor dimensionality
hummingbirds are tetrachromat 
mantis shrimps have 12 photoreceptors
on a squirrel monkey, u can boost from 2d-3d

can we replicate this in humans wo gene therapy, using oz vision system?
oz vision:
	protanope
coretsumo --> 4d color vision in humans
	take subset of cells and label them as mutant L. send different microdose stimulation to those mutant l
	s. 
	LMS + mutant IR. purely software? 
can call a subset of cells as processing IR, but they wont actually do anything diff yet. 
**adaptation = IR + RGB imagery**
what color test are we going to show them to ask if a new color dimension has emerged? 

**alternative forced prediction test!?**
increasing AFC accuracy is a good metric for adaptation after boosting. 

what is an RGB IR video? how do we get people to adapt to a new set of IR cone signals. 

### comp neuro for visual perception: a mechanistic model for emergence of color vision
neevr resting eye - drifts and saccades (large jumps in the visual field)
lateral inhibtion at horizontal cell layers. data compression: 6 mil cone cells --> 1 million fibers. 

action potentials at rgc layer. soatial distortion of image from bundlimg of optic fibers/ 



modeling cone type and lateral inhibition

cortex knows nothing about the world except form the optic nerve signals


**4 color matching functinos, but no way for us to visualize it yet.**
**using crispr to do gene therapy and add another opsin/cone cell type**

invariant retinal properties has 3 buckets. 
1. lateral inhibition 
	1. invert to get photoreceptor activations
	2. inverting lateral inhibition
2. spepctral acitivity of each cone cell/cone mosaic. 
	**	3. positions of these cells might prevent warping of the image. **
		4. inverting spectral sampling
3. cell positions
	1. inverting foveation

cortex learns to minimize error in predicting optic nerve signals
unsupervised learning of retinal properties

project ideas:
1. comp neuro modeling
2. oz vision/coretsumo
3. spectral imaging, printing, display
	1. building a multispectral dataset (natural images for sp)


sony 828 camera w 4 color filters
hes collecting a small dataset w this camera
rgb + IR
building a custom RGB + IR camera

image statistics 

D15. --> A3. 

a2. implement more retinal functions to our current com neuro model
	chromatic aberration, motion blurring
	A.1 full 6m cone simulation
e21. integrate compneuro w coretsumo

retinal simulation
	
find the tiniest dataset for color emergence
antonia torralba eecs calloqui,