electroplating?? cathode reductiona nd anode oxidation
what elements are rewuired to grow a fractal like structure

random motions
diffusion
random walk

brownian motion: motian of one particle in a solution due to collosision with other
	its trail has a topological dimension. if it is confide, it has a fractal dimension of 2. 
at room temp, theres enough thermal energy in a light particle (like water) to move under thermal motion of the molecule
	people ignored this!


brownian random walk = fractal, if u zoom in (in our case sample more frequently) get more 
makes a non differentiable curve

how far the the particle diffusion in time t?
	maybe 0, if u add the distance in the left and right. in infinite time steps t. 
	if u have a finite number of steps, it may explore that amount in the left or right direction. 
	get a distribution, converges to a smooth gaussian
		distance it travels must fall within that curve
	0 is still the most likely value. so the average as u try this one million times will still go to 0. 
		sad because gives us no detail
	NEXT HIGHER MOMENT. average of the squared distance. 
		if you change this to a function of time
		law of diffusion
brownian motion exhibits 1/f^2
	way to derive fractal dimension
are the ensemble average and the time average the same?
need random numbers on the computer. 


seed that is already fixed in place
move one particle at a time, as soon as it hits an existing structure, it gets stuck
**diffusion limited aggregation**
	not the same as crystal growth! why? 
		lacking attractive forces? no -> u can code that into the random motion
		crystals are made up of a repeated pattern? we could make our unit a pattern instead of a particle
		we always use periodic boundary conditions and they wrap
		particle gets STUCK and then never moves again
			allow particles that got stuck already to move again
			never let the particle get stuck
**diffusion limited aggregation!!!!!!**
	modified DLA leads to better oacking
### takeaways
how to generate random walks: squared distance grows linear with time. 
how DLA aggregation works