**Abinaya Dinesh

ESPM 198 

Week 1

A polycrisis is 3 or more systemic issues coming together to cause an irreversible crisis to humanity. Some examples of our current polycrisis are climate change (the melting of permafrost at the poles, the gradual heating of the earth, shifting of the seasons and increased probability of natural disasters), the COVID-19 pandemic (with huge impact on human health as well as supply chains), and biodiversity loss (with major impacts on food production, soil health, virus protection, and searches for medicine). These are usually made up by system risks, which is a risk in one system that leads to damage in another - meaning once the systems start breaking, it takes a huge interdisciplinary, political and collective action to try and remediate or solve the issues. For example, it was recently found that Monterey Bay had levels of ocean pollution similar to that in the Pacific Garbage Patch. Kyle Van Houtan, chief scientist at the Monterey Bay Aquarium, says “This is not a place you expect to find a lot of plastic, a lot of toxics,” he said. “What it shows is the pervasive effect of the human ability to transform the oceans into a nonnatural state, even in a place where we have a lot of protections.”

  

Fidel Castro, who was a marxist-leninst, realized in 2009 that if we do not take action to prevent or reverse the impending polycrisis that would impact all living species on Earth, the world would no longer be able to decide how  society would look in the future, rather, if society even exist. This shows that many people, especially the politicians who refused to come up with binding and specific reduction targets during the 2009 Copenhagen World Climate Agreement, don't truly grasp how important it is to reverse the rates of climate change in order for any possibility of a thriving global society to emerge. The main drivers behind current environmental damage are our increasing populations, the use of technology to accelerate construction and development, and an economy/government that boundlessly pursues economic growth in lieu of systemic improvements. 

The unfortunate result of this is the public is unable to identify or begin to be aware of the harmful chemical in everyday products they use. According to What Every Environmentalist Needs to Know About Capitalism, “Of the 84,000 chemicals in commercial use in the United States, we don’t [know the] potential harmfulness of 20 percent (close to 20,000)—their composition falls under the category of “trade secrets” and is legally withheld”. Since many of the most impactful drivers of government decision making is lobbying, it would take an immense collective public effort to get more transparent labels on commercial goods and a higher standard from the EPA on what is appropriate for high quality human health. In the future, if we are to use collective action as a mechanism for reversing parts of the polycrisis, consumers must be made aware of the impact of polycrisis on their daily lives by giving the research and information from companies they buy from every day.**